Trying to get back into the habit of actively blogging, and finding some sort of rhythm in the week is part of the struggle. “Throwback Thursday” is as good a place to start as any, I think, since I have a backlog of photographs of myself taken at various different ages, and since I am trying to recover some of my memories from periods of my life that I don’t often think about.

This charming little shot was taken in Manhattan in 1975-1976, I believe. [Actually it was 1974! See note below] It’s me standing with my first boyfriend. His name was Yoel, and I vaguely recall that his parents were from Israel. I can’t recall why and how we met, but I know we went to pre-school together, and I think our fathers were friends.

Looking at the photo now feels a bit strange. I can’t fully remember those years, because there is a wall of pain that begins immediately afterward and continues to run into the present day. I do recall that this is about the time of my life that I picked Catwoman as an early role model, and made up my own analogous character for recess role-playing games.

I also remember putting together some of my first fragments of scientific knowledge, and how my younger brain would run away with every tiny scrap of information. I knew that the rings of Saturn were made of sand, for example, but I imagined those rings as an endless banded desert, with stripes of sand hundreds of miles across. In my child’s imagination, raiders could ride their alien steeds across the sands and have Saturn Adventures.

I can also see just from looking at this picture that since I was pretty tiny, the same things have always made me smile.

Just give me a gorgeous guy who’s crazy about me, willing to take off all his clothes and go running down the street with me if need be, and proud to hold my hand in public? And I’m happy. :)

 

CORRECTIVE MEMORY: One of the great things about doing this while my mother is still alive is that she can correct my hazy memory of past events. While I originally thought that this photo was from 1975-1976, for example, she tells me by looking at it that it couldn’t have been any later than 1974, while I was still going to a Montessori school in Manhattan.

So on the one hand–wow, I was tall and precocious! I still remember giving this boy my first kisses!

On the other hand–wow, I went to Montessori school! I didn’t remember that at all!

A little excerpt today for a team interview to be published in the upcoming Sword of the Stars premium Lore Book. Just one of a series of questions about how I came to write the Morrigi background fiction in the summer of 2008.

The history of the Morrigi is actually pretty tragic. Why did you give them such a brutal backstory?

It may be a cliché, but…I blame Leonidas.

My group went to Thermopylae one weekend, and walked around the site. They’ve erected a heroic statue of Leonidas for tourists by the side of the road. It left me completely cold. Did not move me at all.

But then we went to the site of Kallipodi a week later, which was being excavated by a German team at the time. And at Kallipodi I stood looking down into the ruins of a lovely little temple to Artemis which had once stood there in the rolling hills, quietly minding its own business. The place had been destroyed by the Persians. There are similar destructions at other sites all over northern Greece. Looking at them, you can see that they aren’t random, they aren’t casual, they aren’t even opportunistic. This destruction is brutal and complete. You can see that it represents a genuine intention to wipe out someone else’s way of life.

In the scatter of fallen stones and charcoal smears I could see it all. Everything that the implacable bronze statue of “Heroic Warrior Dude” does not show. The beauty of this place desecrated, its treasures sacked, its columns toppled, its roof and banners burning…and its clerics and devotees abused, and put to the sword.

What I saw, in other words, was what Leonidas and his army had died trying to prevent. Real pain. Real sorrow. This was the aftermath of a battle where the defenders failed, and it was a true loss, bitter and complete. A place of beauty and grace had once stood on this site, and it was obliterated by a cruel enemy. Never restored, never re-built…just gone.

I did understand that the fighting at Thermopylae was not completely futile. Leonidas was returning a favor that the Athenians had done him ten years earlier, at Marathon, when they stopped the first Persian invasion. He blunted the attack. He raised the price of admission. And he bought time, even if it was just a few more days, that this temple could continue to stand. He fought so that people could plow their fields, herd their sheep and worship their gods, without having to see what they loved, what they believed in, on fire.

In the end, he gave the Athenians the time they needed to prepare, and ultimately win the decisive battle. His blood did not save Kallipodi…but the enemy never reached Sparta. And who knows, maybe Leonidas really wasn’t just a suicidal fool who wanted to die romantically. Maybe he was king enough, general enough, to know where best to spend his life–and warrior enough to make it flashy.

So while the looming bronze monument to empty heroics did nothing for me, the suffering of the people he tried to save was devastating. Seeing that wrecked me for an entire afternoon. And that suffering made it into the story of the Morrigi.

Yikes.

Just…yikes.

There are times when I DO feel sorry for myself. I suppose a lot of women have these moments, when you think your life has been more difficult than it should have been. That you got a raw deal. You were unwise or unlucky in love, you made choices that led to pain, for yourself and your partner. And that if you didn’t deserve a better hand…well, at the very least you should somehow have played a better game with the cards you were dealt.

But then I read something like this essay from Sarah Pinborough, in response to the recent scandal surrounding the public abuse of Nigella Lawson by her seemingly psychotic husband. And I realize that feeling sorry for myself is absolute bullshit.

Because I have been blessed, throughout my life, with AMAZINGLY GOOD TASTE IN MEN.

I have never in my life given my heart away and chosen to be with a man who had anything but the best intentions, at least when we met. And I’ve had the kind of love that Pinborough describes–the intensity, the joy of the deep connection, more than once. That deep intimacy and deep passion is one of the most wonderful things you can ever experience, and I’ve been amazingly lucky to experience it even once.

And yes, it’s true, it may have ended in tears. But it never, ever ended in blood. And the pain that I’ve gone through when a treasured relationship was over has been nothing more, and nothing less, than the pain of simply losing someone’s love.

Not losing my teeth. Or fearing for my life.

Broken heart sucks, don’t get me wrong. But I’ll take it without the side order of broken ribs, every time. I may get dumped on my ass…but I always know where to put my feet.

Every working writer, even relatively obscure people toiling in the salt mines like Yours Truly, get questions now and again from aspiring writers who want advice. Occasionally it’s practical questions about your career and how you got there, but I always find these questions more touching when they are about the craft itself, and the working life that goes with it.

I got one of these today, which came from a person in his early 20′s, trying to fit in his writing as a hobby while going to college (presumably to learn to do something other than write). He’d been scribbling out a few short things here and there for the last couple of years, never submitting them for publication or committing seriously to the process of feedback and rejection that it takes to hone his instrument.

Now, of course, he’s worked at it long enough to be struck by a Great Idea for a story. But he’s afraid to start it.

    The sheer task of it seems too immense. Even in a best-case scenario it would take me a year or more to belt this out and have it ready to go, and that doesn’t even involve finding someone to print it. As I’m a college student, it’d probably be closer to three years — if I plan on sleeping and studying, that is.

    I’m worried that I’d just become overwhelmed and and wind up floundering with it, become depressed over that, and quitting altogether.

    So really, I was wondering if you had any tips for getting over that kind of fear. I have no idea whether or not it’s common to authors (aspiring or otherwise), but I figured my best chances of getting a useful answer come from asking someone who’s actually a published author.

I wish I had a better answer for this young scribe, because if I did I would publish it as a self-help book and peddle it to the masses. But on the off chance that anyone else who reads my blog might possibly have a similar problem, I’ll pass on my answer to you as well.

The short version?

Just do it.

The long version goes like this.

I’m not sure how to supply you with the courage to tackle an immense writing project, as I don’t feel I have ever written anything “immense”. When I am writing hard, I generally pound things out in a few months at most. I have no idea what length of work requires two or three years to complete, or why your previous work hasn’t been submitted for publication.

Once you get past the nine-month mark, your creative project is taking you more time than it takes a human being to give birth to a child, and giving birth to a child is about the longest stretch at once that I have ever had to work creating something all on my own.

What I can say is that I would not attempt any Great Magnum Opus if I had not worked my way up the ramp by completing and publishing some less daunting projects first. But that is just me. I have been at this for over 22 years now, after all. My first semi-pro publication was a literary review. My first fiction publication was a short story. I’ve just gone on from there in a fairly predictable, rather meandering way.

These things being said…there is also a reason that so many generations of men have embodied the Muse as a woman. Your relationship to your art is very much like your relationship to a person: if you do not respect your art and commit to it, give it the time and attention it deserves, it will lose patience with you and desert you in the end.

Your creative side does not like to be taken for granted or neglected. It wants your time and attention. It wants you to work hard to keep it happy.

I’m sorry that I cannot tell you exactly how to overcome your fear and commit to this story, any more than I can tell you how to overcome your fear and ask the person you love to marry you. All I can say is that no one else can do it for you. And if you’re a real writer, you will never be happy or at peace until your stories are told.

That, and the only guaranteed way to “fail” at anything in life is to give up, of course.

If you’re the Ragequit kinda guy, writing is not going to be your gig.

Writing is like True Love, or becoming an astronaut, or making it to the Olympics. The path you walk is always littered with frozen bodies, like the last few kilometers at the peak of Mount Everest. You end up walking past a lot of people who just weakened and fell, or sat down and said “I’m tired” or “I can’t go any further”. Those people stay stuck where they are and never make it to achieve any kind of success…not even the pleasure of having completed a serious piece of writing.

If you don’t want that to be you–don’t let it happen.

Put one foot in front of the other. Put one sentence after the other.

No matter how slow you’re moving, no matter how hard it is, so long as you keep at it, you’re not going to be just another wannabe-sicle.

And you’re writing a hell of a lot faster than the guy who’s afraid to begin.
