Today I am going to share a letter I received from a friend.  In my next blog I want to discuss the pertinent points and share my opinions in hopes that those that read this will also share their thoughts with me.  I think we will all be surprised at how similar they will be.  This letter has struck me hard and I am not feeling very humorous, but that being said, I do have to insert one giggle before I broach the deep dark side of life.  Please feel free to send me emails as to how I should not be making light of this subject and how I am diminishing the experience and causing more pain and I will send you one right back explaining the merits of laughter and how if you don't laugh and smile you might as well stop reading now, because I will never stop trying to get someone to smile. A smile does the body good, or is that milk, I am still not sure.  But still, nothing is better for you than a good laugh.  So this is my off colour more than likely going to upset someone joke.

This letter is from my friend Sheryl.  We are in a WOW Guild together and talk almost every day and still I had no idea the struggles she has been through   We have touched on it a bit in conversation but in truth we are chat friends and that does not lend itself to opening up the floodgates to someone you really don't know well.  I do have to say first off that I am swelling up with pride that my friend would come forth with her tale.  Thank you Sheryl.

The common thread we all have no matter what our dark experience was, is men, and I really wanted to explain my feelings on this subject because it is one of the most important things for me, and hopefully I will get a reply on other women's thoughts on how I dealt with it.

I have chosen to call my experience an event - because that in truth is what it is to me - I have many events on my lifeline, some black and empty and many, many bright spots of light, my children, marriages, grand babies, men - oh ya gotta love the men folk.  You know muscular ones with no shirts and tool belts sigh.  Sorry couldn't resist - memories of chippendales just popped in my head.  My black event happened when I was very young by four men in their 20's and I believe today with all my heart that they do not represent the other several billion on the planet.   They were four assholes and they were not typical of all men.  This statement is so very important to me and it was one of the main issues I dealt with after my ordeal.   I lived in a house with 10 or 12 people, mostly artists and musicians.  Ah the days of being a hippy.  My male friends were so worried about me and took such great care as I physically healed.   My eyes were swollen shut for several days.  It was that time that I started the separation of the assholes and the rest of the world (which still had jerks in the crowd, but hey you cant have everything)!  Maybe I did that because I was a hippy and we were all peace and love - hell I don't know why, but I had men in my life I loved and they didn't hurt me.  Trust me this was hard.  I let them hug me right after and sit on the couch with me under blankets while they read to me.  The would go to hold my hand and I would cringe and get physically ill.  I knew that this was an emotional reaction and I fought it all the way.  They understood too, my artist friend would sit and draw and not say a word and not try to hug me or hold my hand.  I knew he wanted to comfort me but he knew I wasn't ready.  He would sit with me for hours, never leaving me alone.  Alone was also very very bad.  Sometimes I wanted to run and hide, but nah swollen eyes, no sight stopped that one, sometimes screaming seemed good, but the best was crying and crying and having a warm strong man hold me.  And that was with mixed feelings too.  The horror mixed in with the warmth.  More like a B movie. (This holding stuff took more than a week, and the ongoing flood of tears was absolutely amazing).  How could I see anything but goodness in my friends, so I won that battle you bastards.  You did not stop me from loving men.  Hot, sweaty buffed six pack men sigh - oops sorry got lost there for a minute ha ha.  Enough said - I would love your take on my twisted way of thinking (smile it was a bad joke), twisted sisters just popped in my head.  Thank goodness it is so empty today to have room for all these random pop ins.  Seriously though, each small battle I won made me stronger to tackle the next, and there are many emotional battles on the road to being whole again.
                                                          
"Warning - Major trigger points here"
Sheryl's letter!!  There is no room here for bad humour, she has written this from the heart and I want to give her all the respect and appreciation she deserves.  I have read this letter several times and I know Sheryl will be earning Kudos from many more people today for her bravery and trust in putting this out there in the world.  I honestly hope it comes with a little healing, because if you accept it for what it was then you can put it behind you on your lifeline between all those lovely bright spots.

I have not changed a single word, this is exactly how it was sent to me.

Oh Sheryl I just want to hug you and squeeze you til you pop.  Thank you for sharing this with us.  I want to continue your letter in my next blog, but I would love to have some responses to include as we travel down this road with you.  Thank you again for your honesty and the trust you gave me in sharing this black event on your lifeline.

am sitting in front of the computer with the same thing running through my head over and over - where do I begin - how do I start this story - and most of all - why the hell am I doing this.  I hate typing!

I think the best way, for me anyways, is to just pretend that the readers are now my teens sitting on the couch, with the sun shining brightly through the windows and illuminating them on a glorious clear day.  It's funny the things you remember, the day was so bright and beautiful, but I couldn't tell you the season.  I always figured that we subconsciously chose certain memories to keep and what to toss.  The sun was important to me but the season was irrelevant.  It was like my beautiful children were bathed in sunlight.  Yes, I get sappy sometimes and hug way too much,  but these are part of my survival mechanisms and are necessary to my sanity.

I don't exactly remember the circumstances that had brought me to the point of divulging my experiences to my offspring, but it had something to do with an event at the high school.  Being teens, opinions were formed very quickly and sides were taken on the debate of whether the young girl deserved it or not.  I knew there was only one way to reach my brood and stop these ridiculous things they were learning.  Hit em hard between the eyes, and that is what I did.  Making it personal also made them listen, reality is a wonderful learning tool.

The thing that hurt me the most and was the hardest part of revealing my ordeal was the pain and shock on their faces mixed in with a large amount of that helpless feeling.  

Most of my discussions with my children began with, settle down guys and stop poking your sister,  I need all of you to look me in the eyes while we have a chat about the situation at school.   Unless you are poking your sister, we can forgo that part of the discussion.

I am sure this is going to raise a lot of eyebrows and begin a tide of questions, but please keep in mind that this was over 40 years ago and things really were different.  Doors were not locked and there was a general trust of most  people.  This trust is partly how I ended up alone with a bunch of stoned out med students.  I had left home at 14 (another story for another time) and was used to fending for myself, but lets face it, I was just a baby.   I met some older girls and we spent the day hanging around the park, smoking dope and pan handling.  Please put your judgement aside and remember I was just 16 then and this was a normal occurrence.  This by no means makes it right, and I am not advocating this behavior, but all aspects of the situation must be told accurately.  Glossing over unpleasant parts just because you might not look good takes away from the reality of what is being told.  So I tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

We had made enough money pan handling that we could go out to dinner and pick up a couple of nickle bags.   (Insert explanation to children about nickle bags).  Today I find it odd that I could put so much trust in some girls that I just met that morning, but I did without a second thought.   We were going out to dinner and then a party with some guys they knew.  We could get high in comfort and then crash there for the night.  I was in awe of the girls and the guys when I met them.  Here I was at 16 hanging around people in their 20's, it was a very exciting night for me.  And that was the next thing that helped to make me a target of opportunity.  I am by no means defending the men for what they did,  I am just looking at the events that led up to me being in the wrong place at the wrong time.  I also am not taking any responsibility for what happened.  It does not matter what you are wearing, or how you ended up being alone with no one there to defend you.  I truly believe it is a crime of opportunity, at least a lot of the time.  I find that remembering every detail of those days helps me to deal with questions that many women can not come to terms with like "why me".  It was me because circumstances led me to be left at the party passed out on the couch. 

This scenario shows that if I had taken another route that evening, like not attending the party or not trusting people so openly that things would have been much different.   This is most definitely the wrong road to travel my friends - the should a, could a, would a, road is dark and dangerous and will play nasty tricks with your mind and soul.  It is totally irrelevant how you came to be where you were that night - because as it turns out you were there and no traveling down that dark road will change anything in the past.   The past is a solid fixture - nothing we can say, do or think will ever change it.  So stay off that flipping road of should a, could a, would a! 

It is very important to me to see all past experiences as points in your lifeline or as events - they are there now and won't be going anywhere as they are now part of your being.  They are what makes you who you are.  But....  making choices on what points or events you keep in the forefront of your mind and heart are also what makes you who you are.  Most of the time these choices are subconscious, like my remembering the sunlight but not the season.  In my experience a lot of these choices are mine.  I may not be responsible for what happened to me, but I sure as hell am responsible as to how I react to this event.  Please do not think I am trivializing anything at all,  I went through the same emotions as everyone else, the horror, the shame, the ultimate fear and many, many more that I am choosing not to discuss at this point in time.   I am actually talking about my life philosophy.

You are responsible for every aspect of your life and if things that happen to you are not in your control, then you are completely responsible as to how you react.

Sometimes I manage to make things in my life a bit more difficult than they need be. I think I actually do this on purpose, and someday I will figure out why.  But, my little old life statement has brought about heated discussions as well as some great intellectual conversations.  A lot of times people just look at me strangely and drop the subject.  Actually when I think about it many people have given me that same strange look my whole life.  I find it rather humorous.   So I guess the purpose of this blog other than the beginning of my story, is about how we chose to think and what we chose to remember and then how to deal with it.  When I am in bed at night, sometimes the nightmare comes flooding back, and believe me I know how overwhelming that is, but at that point it becomes my responsibility.   Will I lay there and go through the event in my mind and get my blood boiling and the shakes and well I am sure you know the rest.  Or.... will I force myself to take on other memories, the ones that make life so wonderful.  I have 3 grown children and 3 grandsons and a million fantastic memories, to me it does not make sense to dwell on those few that are the black spots and ignore all the love and joy I have been so so blessed to have. 

This is not an easy thing to do.  I have to fight with myself a lot,  and force the crap memories down.  I keep a notepad at my beside and when I get all this stuff coming back I start writing feverishly.   The birth of my children  (although that brings up a few crappy memories like the nurses etc - not  a good choice).   My son on stage at yukyuk's, my daughter in the miss Canada pageant (twice).  The Christmas door, best Christmas ever.  I'll save that story for later!  The bottom line is that this is my battle alone and I have come out the winner, right after it was over I knew I had won.  I would never be like those men, I would never hurt a child like that, I was better than them and no matter how much hell I had just gone through I knew inside that I was still a good person and these wounds would heal with time.  They would remain the beasts they were forever, walking through life with a black mark on their very souls.  And I often think of how they felt when their precious daughters turned 16 and if they wake up with nightmares filled with guilt at what they had done too that poor baby girl.


Two important things are happening today!              
WOW (World of Warcraft) is adding the 5.4 patch today - and I am sitting here anticipating all the new and glorious content.
And I decided to Blog!  I am not really anticipating the new and glorious content.

This is just going to be off the cuff sarcasm, wit, of course charm, mixed with compassion, care and very, very strong opinions.  Opinions that may offend, but they are all mine and by no means should they be yours.  Go find your own eh!  (ew bad humour,  I am nervous)

Already I have scared myself!!
I just had this awful thought that my son may disown me!  Fortunately I have other children to fill in the void his absence will leave.  You will be missed my love!!

Oh negativity you almost snuck in there haha - But I saw you, you sob. Negativity rides the back of fear and to be truthful I'm still a tad afraid here.

I digress - I have waited years to put that in writing - one moment, I have to do it again - I digress.  So cool eh!!

I have been told several things from many people (there were six I think, if I count the pizza guy)

1.  I have a story to be told.
2. Said storyline is being used in Goblins Comic as the character Kin.  (Very pretty green hair too)
3.  My experiences might help others. They might also offend.
4.  And I made an awesome son - not sure the relevance to this blog but hey, I will never turn away a compliment and the fun of bragging about it.  Did you see the part where it said (I MADE)!   And yes Tarol I knew you were awesome many years ago - but this is my compliment - go get your own.  Oh look I digress again woot, and I used the same line twice, but hey it was a good one don't you think.

On a more serious note this is the current blog plan (which can change at any given moment)
You ask me questions and I will answer them as best I can. Hopefully connected to the current topic. If I can't answer I will refer you to either someone that can help or to my number one son.  Since he is so awesome!  If you don't know the blog main subject material just leave a question.  It is not something I will be yelling from the rooftops.

Questions and answers can either be private or go into my next blog if deemed worthy by a panel of americans seeking political office. It is very important that you let me know if I may put you out there with all of your questionable glory - if I do in error you might want to sue, then this becomes very funny because the only thing you would win in a lawsuit is THunt!!

I  have alot more to say, but none of it has anything to do with this blog,  The lady next door that screams at her kids just when I go to sleep, (the downside of summer) or the dog that poops on my lawn.

