Dear EVERYONE I’ve ever fought with, insulted or was sarcastic to online:

How have you been?

I want to tell you a secret. Well, it’s not a secret exactly, but it’s definitely something that up until now, I didn’t really want you to know. Remember that time you said something to or about me and I shrugged it off with some condescending remark like “Sure thing, Pumpkin” or “You got it, Kiddo“? Maybe I even dabbed the beginning of my sentence with a snide, little “lol” or “haha” to show you how untouched I was by your comments. And if our communique took place long enough ago, I may have even hit you with a “You mad, bro?” before realising that the phrase had already become a tired cliche. The goal being to show you and any witnesses, that I cared so little about your words, I was sure to forget them moments after my cool, glib response. Well none of that was true. I’m not really cool, I’m almost never genuinely glib and I never actually call people condescending nicknames. And your comments? Well they totally did get to me. Sometimes for days or longer. Sometimes it was because you were smarter than me or had the moral high ground in our debates and sometimes you were just… louder. The crazy thing was that I often tried to expose how upset you were while simultaneously demonstrating my own emotional Teflon. Isn’t that stupid?

At the heart of  our battles, were subjects like gender equality, racism, politics, gun rights, religion or sometimes more personal topics like work, friendships and money.

Sometimes I said things to you that were so damned clever and insightful that I just had to re-read it, imagining how you were going to feel as you faced the glare of my undeniable logic and quick wit. However, we both know that there were also times when I said the dumbest shit imaginable. Yikes. You may have been trying your damnedest to make me look and feel stupid, but nobody can do that to me better than I can.

The point of this letter isn’t to apologise or convince you of my own righteousness. Nor is it to declare that I’m somehow now above it all, as I’m sure we’ll go at it again at some point. No, the point of this letter is to tell you that… well… you’re okay. I don’t mean that we’re friends, far from it. I mean, sometimes you fling the most offensive, venomous hatred not just at me, but at huge groups of genuinely victimised people for “the lols”. On the other hand, sometimes you’re a reasonable person that sees the world very differently than I do.

See, I love my wife (I’m going somewhere with this, hang tight). My wife is the most amazing person I’ve ever met. There is no league that contains her but if there were, I wouldn’t be in it. She’s awesome. Imagine Optimus Prime made of bacon and breakdancing for you on your birthday. She’s that level of awesome. And see, here’s the thing. You have stuff in common with her. Maybe it’s something as vague as ‘you both have opposable thumbs’ or maybe your laugh sounds like hers. Whatever it is, you are in some way, just like the most amazing human being I’ve ever met or heard of. No matter how hateful or bat shit crazy the things you say are, no matter how terrible you make me feel by exposing my faults or proving me wrong, that’s something that I’m always going to remember about you. Some part of you is ‘bacon Optimus Prime’ awesome.

And I don’t mean this in some spiritually over-decorated ‘I have the higher ground’ way, because if you look at all of our fights, I really don’t. What I mean is that it’s mathematically impossible for either of us to ever be completely horrible. As long as my wife, bacon and Optimus Prime are awesome, so are we.

With respect,

Back in July, I mentioned that Goblins was up for two awards (a Dragon Slayer Award and an Aurora Award). Well the voting period for those two bad boys is coming to an end, so I thought I’d let you know about ‘em one last time.

The Dragon Slayer Award
This one is super easy. Scroll down to the ‘Notable Gaming Comic‘ category and click on the little dot next to Goblins (of course, you can click on other comics. You don’t HAVE to vote for us). Hurry though, you only have until September 2nd to vote!

The Prix Aurora Award
This one is a bit trickier as it has a couple requirements to vote. Firstly, since this is Canada’s national science fiction and fantasy award you kinda have to be Canadian. Sorry, non-Canadian Goblinites. Now you know how I feel when you Americans keep telling me that I can’t vote during your presidential elections! Elitists!

Secondly, you have to be a member of the CSFFA (Canadian Science Fiction and Fantasy Association); membership is $10/year. You can get your membership here. Membership comes with a ‘voter’s package’, which includes downloadable copies of amazing work from dozens of authors, totalling a LOT more than $10. The money goes toward supporting sci-fi and fantasy authors and artists throughout Canada. For this award, you’ve got until September 13th to vote.

To those of you who’ve voted for me… thank you. I know it’s a little egotistical, but it’s a really great boost that makes those all-nighters feel that much more worth it. Ultimately, one creates for the sake of creating, but everyone likes a pat on the back from time to time. So thank you so much!

And of course, thanks for reading.

Because I’ll be at Gencon, the next two updates will be Altsplanations. Any time the progression of the comic is slowed, it bothers me. However, I haven’t been to a convention in two years (not including VCON, which is figuratively in my back yard) and it’s time I go.

As I mentioned in my previous blog entry, I won’t have a booth but I will be playing Goblins: Alternate Realities quite a bit. Recently, I discovered that there are limited seats to four official G:AR games. I thought it was just going to be Danielle, myself and Evertide Games sitting around playing the game in some dank corner somewhere, but apparently it’s all scheduled and stuff. Anyways, click here to grab a seat at one of the games. You’ll have to sign up/login to a Gencon account, first. If the games fill up, we’ll most likely be playing the game in some open gaming area, so come and find us anyways.

EDIT: Those who come and play with us get a free promo card from Evertide Games.

As always, thanks for reading.

Right now, my site is posted at  . It used to be posted at , but as most of you have figured out and commented on, there are technical difficulties getting my domain back from the individuals who currently have it. At the time of writing this, if you try to go to the .com site, it simply redirects you to the .org site.

Due to technical difficulties THAT ARE NOBODY’S FAULT, the transfer of the domain is having its share of hiccups. So just to be on the safe side, I’m asking all of my readers to bookmark  while you can. If all of the issues are worked out, I’ll let you know and have the .org site redirect all traffic back to the .com site. However, if things don’t work out, the .com site will just stop working and you’ll be all “where are my goblins?”.

Let me state again, that there is no one to blame right now. Everything is cool. Just tech difficulties. Kay?

So bookmark  and change your RSS feed as well. If things fall apart, I’d hate to see you go without your Goblins (and me without my ad revenue /nervous laugh).

As always, thanks for reading my comic at 


So this five day schedule seems to be working out well. Y’see, the problem with twice a week, was that I couldn’t keep up with that schedule and my updates were always late (as you know). The problem with once a week, is that it just feels too slow for the story. Five days seems to be the current sweet spot. But that means that the updates are always on a different day of the week. How can readers keep track of when the comic will update? Well, the countdown clock shown at the top of the page is an experiment that I’ve nervously introduced and it seems to be working well. What do you think? As readers, is the clock doing its job? Even though the updates aren’t posted on regular days of the week, are you still able to easily know when they’re coming or would you prefer that I follow a weekly schedule? Let me know on Twitter or email. I have to say that for the first time in many years, I feel like I’m in a position where I can get on top of things! Also, I should note that the clock will tell you when I’m drawing live. If you ever see a “I’m live right now” type of notice under the clock, feel free to click on it and come and say hi.

In other news, Goblins has been nominated again for this year’s Dragon Slayer Award! If you’d like to support the comic, please pop over and vote for Goblins in the ‘Notable Gaming Comic’ category. If you do… thanks! If you DON’T vote for me… well, still thanks because you read my stuff and that means a lot to me.

As always, thanks for reading.

